layout: post
title: Re-punctuation
categories: 
---

Every time I turn on the t.v. lately I feel flooded by advertisements for ways in which a woman can "re-punctuate" her life; and frankly I am tried of the twisted lies hidden away in so-called liberating advertisements. Here is why...

There are number of things that make a woman a woman, some are pleasant are lovely and others are things most would rather do without -namely a period. Though I understand the desire to rid yourself of this uncomfortable time of month, I also see the beauty behind this often times mistaken gift. 

For most of my fertile life I have struggled with an illness called endometriosis, which has made a large majority of my life hell. One of the treatments for this illness is to place women on different series of hormones (most often given through the form of birth control pills) to suppress the growth of tissue that causes much of the pain associated with endometriosis. The hormones cause a woman to not menstruate for long periods of time, for my particular case I would maybe have two periods a year. 

Though the treatments helped to control my pain for a certain amount of time I was ill informed on how they effected the rest of body, and the long standing effects I would deal with years after stopping the so-called medication. The most noticeable affect of the pill was my huge increase in weight. I have always been a thin girl, even as a child I was often mocked for my boney figure and not developing as quickly as the other girls my age. When I began to take the pill at age 18 I was a mere 96 lbs, as I approached my 19th birthday I as nearly 125 lbs. I remained on the pill for another 3 yrs and the affects began to impede upon my life much more than the endometriosis had. I began to have frequent if not daily "morning sickness", I had constant migraine headaches which could only be treatment by a medication that gave me insomnia, no matter what I did my weight seemed to be irreversible, and I began to develop constant lower back pain. Finally in January of 2007 I decided I was done with the pill and I was going to leave my health in the hands of the Lord, trusting He would lead me to a treatment that did not have such adverse affects on my body. Within two months of stopping the pill my weight dropped, my headaches stopped, and I no longer woke up wanting to throw up - I could actually bear to eat breakfast.

I remember how afraid I was upon my first period that month, it was the first unmedicated period I had had in years and I was fearful to see what it would hold. When it came I must say as odd as this sounds I was grateful! I felt like a woman again. I was beginning to see the beauty in what it is to be a woman. Each month our bodies go through a winter, spring, summer and fall, a constant renewing of our fertility. What a gift that as women we can truly be co-creators with the Lord and each month our bodies remind us of that priceless gift! 

I (more than most women) completely understand the "burden" that a period can be, the ways in which it can interfere with one's life and how the idea of getting rid of, or lessen the frequency of them can seem so appealing. But one thing that seems to be so gravely over-looked by those who take and prescribe the pill (not just those that promise to "re-punctuate" your life with fewer periods), is how much these so-called medications truly strip us of our womanhood. Lets look at this from a purely social and cultural level. The first time a girl has her period she is often times celebrated by her mother and other older women in the family, b/c this is seen as a passage into womanhood! In the hispanic culture young woman are thrown a huge spiritual and cultural celebration to formally announce to the world that she is a woman - this is known as a quinceanera. 

Culturally for centuries a young-woman's first cycle has signified her entering into womanhood. Therefore it seems so backwards to me that as a woman gets older and more mature she is bombarded with messages on how to "re-punctuate" her life, how to rid herself of the burden of womanhood. And why? Why do we as women need to "re-punctuate" our lives? According to the commercial it is so that we can feel liberated. Well I have to be completely honest, those almost five years I spent on the pill were the most oppressive years of my life, and the day I flushed those pills down the toilet was the most liberating day of my life. I was ridding myself of the poison I had been pumping into my system for years and it felt darn good! At that moment I decided to place my health in the hands of my Lord and savior and not in the hands of doctors who had only put a band-aid on my illness, and I have never looked back. 

I understand to a degree the usage of the pill for birth control reasons, but that argument again comes down to the principle of womanhood and the fact that the pill strips a woman of what makes her a woman. My husband and I do not use any form of birth control, instead we use natural family planning and we use our sexuality and our sex life as a gift and not a right. NFP has taught us to control our animal like desires and see the other for the gift they are. We do not feel entitled to sex, rather we see the gift in the times we choose to renew our martial vows and we trust in the Lord, his good graces and his will for our lives that children will come in his perfect time.

I think one thing this society forgets (and sadly most often fellow Christians) is that the conception of a child is in and of itself a miracle. Everything must be just right inside the body of the woman and the man in order for conception to occur - any couple who has struggled with conceiving will tell you this. As Catholics we believe that life, actual human life begins at conception - the moment the sperm meets the egg human life has begun. This is truly an act of God, it has to be. He has to will that life to begin b/c he has to infuse that life with a soul, a soul unlike any other, a soul written on the palm of his hand, just like you and me. And this is just conception that I am talking about, lets not forget how much of a miracle it is to bring a child into the world, to have a health pregnancy to term - every step of a baby's life up until (and often times after) he/she leaves his/her mother's womb is a miracle, ordained by the one and only God. How foolish a society we have become, thinking we have control over the matters of life and death, when we know in our nature that only the Almighty has true control over these issues.

So for those who believe they need to "re-punctuate" their lives by lessen the frequency of what makes them a woman, I say re-punctuate your life by seeking true and utter liberation and leave your fears and "burdens" at the foot of the cross with our Savior where they belong. I say lets re-punctuate our lives by seeking to be what we were created to be in our true essences - truly man and truly woman. My re-punctuation is to leave my fertility in the hands of the one who made it and be truly woman - Fiat!
